- [Narrator] JSON-P features an object model API
that allows us to perform various operations
for the JSON data type within Java.
Using the object model API, we can create, read,
and string JSON objects and array structures
using its interface which follows a builder pattern.
Let's take a look at how we can read JSON
using the object model approach.
Within our JAX-RS order resource,
we've already written some JSON to a string.
We're now going to go ahead and read that
using JSON-P's object model.
So to get started, we're going to create a JSON reader
and the JSON reader implements the auto-closable interface
so we're going to create it within a try block.
To create a JSON reader, we simply use the JSON object
and the create reader method to read an input stream
and we're going to use a string reader
in order to read the JSON string that we created.
So let's go ahead, we'll import those types
and now we have our JSON reader
within the auto-closable syntax.
Once we have our reader and it has the JSON string,
we can create a JSON object
and that JSON object's going to allow us
to access the different properties of the JSON.
So just declare a new object, of type JSON object,
and then use the JSON reader to read the object
and now we have a JSON object
that uses JSON-P's object model
and we can traverse into the different sections
of our JSON document, so let's take a look at that.
Here's our order, let's go ahead and retrieve
the first name of the customer.
So you'll notice that is nested within the customer property
we can access the customer object
by using the get JSON object method
on our JSON object
and here, we just specify the name of the property
that we would like to access.
So we're going to specify the customer property on the JSON
and then from there, we can go ahead and print out
the name of our customer by accessing the customer object
which is a JSON object and then we can use
one of the strongly typed get methods.
So here, we can get a string,
you see their support for various different types
including numbers, and there's also integers.
In our case, we're just fetching a string
and all we have to do is provide the name of the property
which, in our case, is first name.
Okay, with that in place,
we're ready to start our application and run a test
and when we run our test,
instead of seeing the entire JSON object printed out,
we're just going to see the first name of the customer.
'Kay, so there's our console starting up.
Let's go ahead and we'll clear the console
and then once again, I'm going to kick off the test
with our power show
and now if we take a look at our console output,
we can scroll up and we see the customer name is printed out
so we were able to use the JSON-P object model
to access properties in a very math-like fashion
just by using property names.